.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EUBIND 1 "October 20, 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
eubind \- Creates standalone euphoria executables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bind
.RB [\| \-i
.IR path ]
.RB [\| \-c
.IR conf-file ]
.RB [\| \-d
.IR word ]
.RI " files" ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B eubind
command.  eubind is used for creating standalone executables from euphoria 
programs.  The code is parsed and converted to euphoria IL code, and combined
with the compiled backend.  The result is a file that can be run on its own,
without the euphoria interpreter.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i path
Specifies an additional include path to the interpreter.
.TP
.B \-c path-to-eu.cfg
Specifies a configuration file to be read in to specify additional
include paths for the interpreter.
.TP
.B -d tag 
Defines a tag as being set. Tags are processed by 
.B ifdef
blocks.
.TP
.B  \-eub path-to-backend
Allows specification of the backend runner to use
besides the default, installed version.
.TP
.B -full_debug 
Make a somewhat larger .il file that contains enough debug 
information to provide a full ex.err dump when a crash occurs. Normally, 
variable names and line-number information is stripped out of the .il file, so 
the ex.err will simply have "no-name" where each variable name should be, 
and line numbers will only be accurate to the start of a routine or the start of
a file. Only the private variable values are shown, not the global or local 
values. In addition to saving space, some people might prefer that the shrouded
file, and any ex.err file, not expose as much information.
.TP
.B -list
Outputs the list of deleted symbols to a file.
.TP
.B -out executable_file
This option lets you choose the name of the 
executable file created by the binder. Without this option, ##eubind## will 
choose a name based on the name of the main Euphoria source file.
.TP
.B -quiet
Suppress normal messages and statistics. Only report errors.

.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBeuphoria\fP is a program that...
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR eui (1),
.BR euc (1),
.BR eushroud (1)
.BR eub (1)
.br
The programs are documented fully
in /usr/share/euphoria/html
.SH AUTHOR
euphoria was written by Robert Craig <rds@rapideuphoria.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Matt Lewis <matthewwalkerlewis@gmail.com>.
