.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH DIS.IX 1 "November 7, 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
eudist.ex \- Gather all include files for distribution of a euphoria program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eudist
.RB [\| \-c
.IR file ]
.RB [\| \--clear]
.RB [\| \-d
.IR dir ]
.RB [\| \-e
.IR dir ]
.RB [\| \-ed
.IR dir ]
.RB [\| \-edr
.IR dir ]
.RB [\| \-i
.IR dir ]
.RB [\| \-v]
[
.IR euphoria-file\ args... ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B eudist
command.  Gathers euphoria files for a program into a directory for
easy distribution.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBeuphoria\fP is an interpreted or compiled programming language.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c path-to-eu.cfg
Specifies a configuration file to be read in to specify additional
include paths for the interpreter.
.TP
.B \--clear
Clear the output directory before writing the files.
.TP
.B -d dir
Specify an output directory.  The default is eudist.
.TP
.B \-e file
Excludes a file.
.TP
.B \-ed directory \--exclude-directory
Exclude a directory.
.TP
.B \-edr dir \--exclude-directory-recursively
Exclude a directory recursively.
.TP
.B \-i dir
Specifies an additional include path to the interpreter.
.TP
.B \-v \--verbose
Turn on verbose output
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR euc (1),
.BR eub (1),
.BR eui (1),
.BR eudis (1)
.br
The programs are documented fully
in /usr/share/euphoria/html
.SH AUTHOR
euphoria was originally written by Robert Craig <rds@rapideuphoria.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Matt Lewis <matthewwalkerlewis@gmail.com>.
