.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH DIS.IX 1 "April 4, 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
dis.ex \- IL Code Disassembler for the Euphoria programming language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int
.RB [\| \-batch ]
.RB [\| \-c
.IR file ]
.RB [\| \-copyright ]
.RB [\| \-d
.IR word ]
.RB [\| \-i
.IR dir ]
.RB [\| \-l 
.IR local]
.RB [\| \-ldb
.IR localdb
.RB [\| \-p
.IR file_ext:command]
.RB [\| \-strict ]
.RB [\| \-t]
.RB [\| \-test ]
.RB [|\ \-version]
.RB [\| \-w
.IR warning_name ]
.RB [\| \-wf
.IR warning-file ]
.RB [\| \-x ]
.RB [\| \-? ]
[
.IR euphoria-file\ args... ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B int
command.  Parses euphoria code and outputs the IL code in a human
readable format.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBeuphoria\fP is an interpreted or compiled programming language.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-batch
Executes the program but if any error occurs, the "Press Enter" prompt is
not presented. The exit code will be set to 1 on error, 0 on success.
.TP
.B \-c path-to-eu.cfg
Specifies a configuration file to be read in to specify additional
include paths for the interpreter.
.TP
.B \-copyright
Display all copyright notices.
.TP
.B -d word
Defines a word as being set. Words are processed by 
.B ifdef
blocks.
.TP
.B \-i dir
Specifies an additional include path to the interpreter.
.TP
.B \-l local
Defines a locatization qualifier.
.TP
.B \-ldb localdb
Defines the base name for localization databases.
.TP
.B \-p file_ext:command
Setup a pre-processor
.TP
.B \-pf
Force pre-processing regardless of cache state.
.TP
.B \-strict
This turns on all warnings, overriding any with/without warning statement
found in the source.
.TP
.B \-t
Parses and outputs IL code as though the euphoria translator (euc) were
executing instead of the translator.
.TP
.B \-test
Parses the code only and issues any warnings or errors to ##STDOUT##. On
error the exit code will be 1, otherwise 0. If an error was found, the 
normal "Press Enter" prompt will not be presented when using the ##-TEST##
parameter which enables many editors/IDEs to test the syntax of your
Euphoria source in real time.
.TP
.B \-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.B \-w warning_name
Resets, or adds to, the current list of wrnings that may be emitted. The list of known 
names is to be found in the detailed documentation subsection describing 
.TP
.B with\ warning. 
A name should appear without quotes. The first 
.B -w
switch resets the list to the  warning being introduced, and each subsequent 
.B \-w
switch adds to the list.
.TP
.B \-wf
Sets the file where the warnings should go instead of the standard error.
.TP
.B \-x
Resets, or adds to, the list of warnings that will 
.B not 
be issued. This is symetric of the 
.B \-w
switch.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR euc (1),
.BR eub (1),
.BR eui (1)
.br
The programs are documented fully
in /usr/share/euphoria/html
.SH AUTHOR
euphoria was originally written by Robert Craig <rds@rapideuphoria.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Matt Lewis <matthewwalkerlewis@gmail.com>.
