.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXU 1 "June 28, 2008"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
exu \- Interpreter for the Euphoria programming language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exu
.RB [\| \-batch ]
.RB [\| \-c
.IR conf-file ]
.RB [\| \-d
.IR word ]
.RB [\| \-i
.IR path ]
.RB [\| \-strict ]
.RB [\| \-test ]
.RB [\| \-w
.IR warning_name ]
.RB [\| \-wf
.IR warning-file ]
.RB [\| \-x ]
[
.IR euphoria-file\ args... ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B exu
command.  The euphoria-file is optional.  If omitted, the interpreter will prompt
for the file to be executed.  If the file is passed to the command line, any 
additional command line info is passed to the euphoria program to be run.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBeuphoria\fP is an interpreted or compiled programming language.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-batch
Executes the program but if any error occurs, the "Press Enter" prompt is
not presented. The exit code will be set to 1 on error, 0 on success.
.TP
.B \-c path-to-euinc.conf
Specifies a configuration file to be read in to specify additional
include paths for the interpreter.
.TP
.B -d tag 
Defines a tag as being set. Tags are processed by 
.B ifdef
blocks.
.TP
.B \-i path
Specifies an additional include path to the interpreter.
.TP
.B \-strict
This turns on all warnings, overriding any with/without warning statement
found in the source.
.TP
.B \-test
Parses the code only and issues any warnings or errors to ##STDOUT##. On
error the exit code will be 1, otherwise 0. If an error was found, the 
normal "Press Enter" prompt will not be presented when using the ##-TEST##
parameter which enables many editors/IDEs to test the syntax of your
Euphoria source in real time.
.TP
.B \-w warning_name
Resets, or adds to, the current list of wrnings that may be emitted. The list of known 
names is to be found in the detailed documentation subsection describing 
.B with\ warning. 
A name should appear without quotes. The first 
.B -w
switch resets the list to the  warning being introduced, and each subsequent 
.B \-w
switch adds to the list.
.TP
.B \-wf
Sets the file where the warnings should go instead of the standard error.
.TP
.B \-x
Resets, or adds to, the list of warnings that will 
.B not 
be issued. This is symetric of the 
.B \-w
switch.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ecu (1),
.BR eubackend (1),
.BR eubind (1),
.BR eushroud (1).
.br
The programs are documented fully
in /usr/share/euphoria/html
.SH AUTHOR
euphoria was originally written by Robert Craig <rds@rapideuphoria.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Matt Lewis <matthewwalkerlewis@gmail.com>.